DEVDOCS-4714: [update] BODL, add 5 bodl events (#1838)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/analytics/bodl-for-storefronts.mdx

## BODL event schemas

BODL exposes data when shoppers trigger storefront events. Currently, BODL supports the following storefront events:

- [View product page](#view-product-page-event-schema)
- [View product category](#view-product-category-event-schema)
- [Add product to cart](#add-product-to-cart-event-schema)
- [View cart](#view-cart-event-schema)
- [Remove product from cart](#remove-product-from-cart-event-schema)
- [Start checkout](#start-checkout-event-schema)
- [Purchase order](#purchase-order-event-schema)

### View product page

When the shopper clicks a button to view a product page, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `channel_id` | integer | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |

> | `id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |

Author: @bc-rmalyavc Is my description correct (is `id` the `event_id`)? Sometimes I get an empty string (screenshot)
![view product page](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/96258747/227020145-69655afa-052c-4228-bd6c-c1990df876e0.png)

Reviewer: @bc-rmalyavc Yes, let us add them in. I don't know why they were left out.

Author: Engineering ticket that I'm following to get this fixed: [DATA-11047](https://bigcommercecloud.atlassian.net/browse/DATA-11047)

| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Item on the product page. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

### View product category

When the shopper clicks a button to view the category page for a product, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `category_id` | integer | ID of the category. | [Get all categories](/docs/rest-management/catalog/category#get-all-categories) <br /> `data.id` |
| `category_name` | string | Name of the category. | [Get all categories](/docs/rest-management/catalog/category#get-all-categories) <br /> `data.name` |
| `channel_id` | integer | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |

> | `id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |

Author: I'll go ahead and resolve the conversation so I can publish the doc, as this is a bug fix (rather than a schema change)

| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Items in the category. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

### Add product to cart

When the shopper clicks a button to add a product to a cart, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `channel_id` | string | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |
| `currency` | string | [ISO-4217 currency code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the order. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-storefront/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br />  `data.cart.currency.code` |

> | `id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |

Reviewer 2: Another note. The field is empty when adding a product from PLP and is completely missing if product added from PDP.
@bc-sanjayjoshi

Reviewer: @bc-rmalyavc which field is this?

Author: @bc-sanjayjoshi This was about the `id` field for the Add Product to Cart event. 

I'll go ahead and resolve the conversation so I can publish the doc, as this is a bug fix (rather than a schema change)

| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Items added to the cart. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

> | `product_value` | number | Item price before discounts and coupons. Product default price or, if applicable, the sale price configured in the admin panel. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `lineItems.physicalItems.listPrice` or <br /> `lineItems.digitalItems.listPrice`|

Author: @bc-rmalyavc Just wanted to confirm my description (that `product_value` is before both coupons and discounts are applied)?

### View cart

When the shopper clicks a button to view a cart, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `cart_value` | number | Final value of cart after taxes, discounts, and coupons are applied. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `cartAmount` |
| `channel_id` | string | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |
| `currency` | string | [ISO-4217 currency code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the order. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-storefront/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br />  `data.cart.currency.code` |

> | `id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |

Reviewer 2: The same as above, the field is empty
@bc-sanjayjoshi

Author: I'll go ahead and resolve the conversation so I can publish the doc, as this is a bug fix (rather than a schema change)

| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | All items in the cart. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

### Remove product from cart

When the shopper clicks a button to remove a product from the cart, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|

> | `cart_value` | number | Final value of cart after taxes, discounts, and coupons are applied. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `cartAmount` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `product_value` | number | Final value of cart after taxes, discounts, and coupons are applied. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `cartAmount` |
```

Author: @bc-sanjayjoshi @bc-rmalyavc Even though the [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13qlYa9gtuVcjs2iBZ-jWP74W1GPRQw9J496t7QYbbJg/edit#) says `product_value`, I get `cart_value` 
![remove product from cart](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/96258747/227644666-ff5b64a9-6b17-41e9-a0df-a6d102e5c3db.png)

Reviewer: @bc-rmalyavc Maybe a bug? product_value would be for 1 product and cart_value for the entire cart. Only time they would be the same is if the cart had 1 product.

Author: Resolving conversation, problem fixed after I updated my stencil theme

| `channel_id` | string | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |
| `currency` | string | [ISO-4217 currency code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the order. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-storefront/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br />  `data.cart.currency.code` |

> | `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Items removed from the cart. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

Reviewer 2: As per [the doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13qlYa9gtuVcjs2iBZ-jWP74W1GPRQw9J496t7QYbbJg/edit#heading=h.d4f6ozfxng47), there should be event_id also, but it's missing in reality
@bc-sanjayjoshi

Reviewer: @bc-rmalyavc event_id is not needed for GA4 but from the BODL perspective, it is needed as we expand to other tech partners.

Author: @bc-sanjayjoshi Yes, this doc is about BODL. 

The `event_id` is currently missing from BODL when I test it in my browser. If we're planning on fixing that, it would be great if you could provide an engineering ticket that I can watch, so I can update my doc once BODL is fixed

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `cart_value` | number | Final value of cart after taxes, discounts, and coupons are applied. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `cartAmount` |
| `channel_id` | string | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |
| `coupon_codes[]` | array of strings | Coupon codes applied to the cart. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `coupons.code` |
| `currency` | string | [ISO-4217 currency code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) of the order. BigCommerce tracks currency for a cart and not for each line item within the cart. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `currency.code` |
| `event_id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |
| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Items that were checked out. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

### Purchase order

> When the shopper clicks a button to finalize a purchase, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the item:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the shopper clicks a button to finalize a purchase, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the event:
```

### View product category

When the shopper clicks a button to view the category page for a product, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the `categoryViewed` event:

| Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `category_id` | integer | ID of the category. | [Get all categories](/docs/rest-management/catalog/category#get-all-categories) <br /> `data.id` |
| `category_name` | string | Name of the category. | [Get all categories](/docs/rest-management/catalog/category#get-all-categories) <br /> `data.name` |
| `channel_id` | integer | The BigCommerce channel ID. Channel ID of the channel where checkout is taking place. | [Get all channels](/docs/rest-management/channels#get-all-channels) <br /> `data.id` |
| `event_id` | string | Unique ID for each event instance. | Unique event ID generated by BigCommerce. |
| `line_items[]` | array of `line_item` objects | Items in the category. | See [line_item](#line_item-object-schema) object for event fields |

### View product page

When the shopper clicks a button to view a product page, the following fields appear in the BODL object for the `pageViewed` event:

> | Event field | Type | Description | BigC data map |

Reviewer 3: I know this is a dumb question but I have to ask. Is this approved by marketing? House rules are that we spell BigCommerce out each time, but I could be wrong.

Author: I think I just didn't see it, but just changed it to "BigCommerce" everywhere

| `currency` | string | [ISO-4217 currency code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) for the transaction. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-management/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br />  `data.cart.currency.code`  |
| `discount` | number | Discount applied to the item. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-storefront/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br /> `data.cart.discountAmount` |
| <sup>+</sup>`gift_certificate_id` | string | ID of gift certificate. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `lineItems.giftCertificates.id` |
| <sup>+</sup>`gift_certificate_name` | string | Name of gift certificate that appears in the control panel. | [Get a Cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `lineItems.giftCertificates.name` |
| <sup>+</sup>`gift_certificate_theme` | string | Theme of gift certificate. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `lineItems.giftCertificates.theme` |
| <sup>+</sup>`index` | integer | The position of the item in the cart. | [Get a checkout](/docs/rest-storefront/checkouts#get-a-checkout) <br /> `data.cart.lineItems.physicalItems.id` or `data.cart.lineItems.digitalItems.id` |

> | `product_id` | integer | ID of the product. | [Get a product](/docs/rest-management/catalog/products#get-a-product) <br /> `data.id` |

Reviewer 2: @bc-sanjayjoshi,
Type is conflicting with [the doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13qlYa9gtuVcjs2iBZ-jWP74W1GPRQw9J496t7QYbbJg/edit#heading=h.tbdia9ynarrk), where it's a string. However, it's in fact integer, so I think, the internal doc should be updated.

Author: @bc-sanjayjoshi This was about the `product_id` field. 

It seems like updating the internal doc would be the best fix. I'll go ahead and resolve the conversation so I can publish my doc

| `quantity` | integer | Number of items of product purchased. | [Get a cart](/docs/rest-storefront/carts#get-a-cart) <br /> `lineItems.physicalItems.quantity` or <br /> `lineItems.digitalItems.quantity` |
| <sup>++</sup>`retail_price` | number | The retail price of the product. The price should include or exclude tax, based on the store settings. | [Get a product](/docs/rest-management/catalog/products#get-a-product) <br /> `data.retail_price` |
| `sale_price` | number | Price of product after sale. The price should include or exclude tax, based on the store settings. | [Get a product](/docs/rest-management/catalog/products#get-a-product) <br /> `data.sale_price` |
| `sku` | string | User-defined SKU for the product or variant (whichever is applied). | [Get a product](/docs/rest-management/catalog/products#get-a-product) <br /> `data.sku` or `data.variants.sku` |

> | <sup>+++</sup>`variant_id` | integer | ID of the variant. | [Get a product](/docs/rest-management/catalog/products#get-a-product) <br /> `data.variants.id` | 

Reviewer 2: @bc-sanjayjoshi,
The same as with `product_id`. The internal doc says, it's a string, but it's actually an integer

Author: @bc-sanjayjoshi It seems like updating the internal doc would be the best fix, as Roman mentioned [here](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1838/files#r1147814279). I'll go ahead and resolve the conversation so I can publish my doc

  "html": "<script> function subscribeOnBodlEvents() {console.log('run subscribeOnBodlEvents()'); window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || []; if (!window || typeof window.bodlEvents === 'undefined' || typeof window.bodlEvents.checkout === 'undefined') {console.log('not defined'); return;} if (typeof window.bodlEvents.checkout.checkoutBegin === 'function') {window.bodlEvents.checkout.checkoutBegin((payload) => {console.log('window.bodlEvents.checkout.checkoutBegin ~ payload', payload);});} if (typeof window.bodlEvents.checkout.orderPurchased === 'function') {window.bodlEvents.checkout.orderPurchased((payload) => {console.log('window.bodlEvents.checkout.orderPurchased ~ payload', payload);});}}  window.addEventListener('load', subscribeOnBodlEvents, false); </script>",
  "load_method": "default",
  "location": "head",

>   "visibility": "all_pages",            //configure which pages the script is available

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  "visibility": "all_pages",            //set which pages can access the script
```
